Concepts Ex 1


What is the difference between concurrency and parallelism?
Paralllelism means that multiple tasks executing on different CPU-s at the same time
while concurrency is that multiple tasks are in progress at the same time conseptually, but not necessarily executing at same time
ex. seems like things are done at sime time, while we actually just are swapping back and forth quick

What is the difference between a race condition and a data race?

Race condition is that timing or ordering of instructions determine behaviour
Data race is when two different threads uses the same memory location concurrently, a specific race condition

Very roughly - what does a scheduler do, and how does it do it?
Scheduler decides which thread/process runs on which CPU core and at what time.
Done by:maintaining runnable threads.  selecting based on scheduling policy (ex priority based)...

Engineering

Why would we use multiple threads? What kinds of problems do threads solve?
For programs requiring things to happend at the same time. Solves parallell problems


Some languages support "fibers" (sometimes called "green threads") or "coroutines"? What are they, and why would we rather use them over threads?
Fibers or green threads are lightweight, user-space managed threads that are scheduled by the language runtime instead of the operating system.
Coroutines are functions that can suspend and resume execution, allowing cooperative multitasking.
Can be preferred over OS threads because:
They are cheaper to create and switch
They scale better to large numbers (millions)
They avoid some synchronization overhead
They allow deterministic scheduling in the runtime
They are ideal for highly concurrent I/O-bound workloads.

Does creating concurrent programs make the programmer's life easier? Harder? Maybe both?
Both, more things to think about, but can solve more complex problems

What do you think is best - shared variables or message passing?
Think message passing is the best. Maybe a bit more to implement, but avoids shared mutable state, and reduces the risk of data races